
## contents
---
- [[## resources|resources]]
- [[## notes|notes]]

----
## resources
---
[[cases]]
[[books]]
[[other resources]]

----
## notes
---

### overview
- 19th century imbalance of bargaining power of ship owner and cargo owner (carrier and shipper)
	- this is pre express ligeslation, be it national or international
	- the carrier could unilaterally allocate risk to minimise his iability - laissez faire approach (free market - un regulated risk allocation - liability exclusion clauses)
	- there became a need redress the balance of power in favour of shipper
- need for international unification
	- hague rules, adopted by carriage of goods by sea act 1924
	- hague-visby rules are an updated version of these
- all about stiking a blance of risk between the parties
- key things
	- two types of contract available in carriage of goods by sea, charter party and bill of lading
	- can exist independently or concurrently 
		- Charterparty – contract of carriage of goods by sea between the ‘Ship owner’ and ‘Charterer’.
			- Voyage Charterparty
			- Time Charterparty
			- Bareboat (demise) Charterparty – Crew is supplied by the charterer – Do not constitute contracts for the carriage of goods by sea at all.
		- Bill of lading: The shipper enters into a contract of carriage of goods by sea with the carrier. When the shipper delivers the goods to the carrier, the carrier issues a bill of lading. At this point the bill of lading serves as a receipt of goods, that the carrier has the possession of the goods and as evidence of the contract of carriage.
		- Contracts of carriage cannot be viewed in isolation from contracts for the sale of goods and the provision of finance against documents.


### charter parties
- contract of carriage
- voyage charterparty
	- contract to carry specified goods on a defined voyage or voyages
	- older form of charter party - dating from times when only the owner could take responsivbilty for estimating the risks and likely duration of the voyage and what needed to be charged
- the time charterparty
	- 
- bareboat charterparty or charterparty by demise
- 



### bills of lading
- sea carriage contract - most commonly used form
- also a document of title, a receipt of the goods and their condition and is evidence of a contract of carriage
- different from seaway bill
	- seaway bill is not a document if title and is not a negotioable instrument enitling the holder tio possession
	- acts as a receipt and evidence of cointract of carriage
	- presentation is not necessary
	- seay way can be reporiduced
	- still subject to hague visby rules
	- bill of lading "to order" is negotioable and is required to obtain posession of goods
	- a stright bill of lading is not negotiable - but required to obtain posession
- governed by Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1971, Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992
	- 1971 imposes a limitation of liability under hague-visby rules
	- 1992 allows the lawful holder of the bill and other sea carriage related documents to have right of suit
- states that goods have been delivered in good order and condition from one party to another
- life cycle
	- Shipper books the cargo and delivers goods to the carrier in the UK or abroad
	- Carrier (or its agent) issues the Bill of Lading governed by English law
	- Carrier releases the original B/Ls (usually 3 originals) to the shipper
	- Shipper endorses and sends the original B/L(s) to the buyer (by courier or through banks under a letter of credit)
	- Buyer (or lawful holder of the B/L) presents at least one endorsed original B/L to the carrier’s UK agent at the port of discharge
	- Carrier’s agent verifies the B/L and the holder’s title under the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992 (COGSA 1992)
	- Carrier issues a Delivery Order or releases the container/import PIN; buyer clears HMRC customs and takes delivery
	- The presented original B/L is surrendered to the carrier and stamped “ACCOMPLISHED” (the remaining originals become void under English common law)
- functions of the bill of lading
	- 3 funtions, receipt, evidence, document of title
		- acts as a receipt for the goods shipped
		- acts as evidence of the contract of carriage - only evidence, not the contract itself
		- acts as a docuemnt entitling the holder to possession of the goods (a form of constructive possession, meaning the shipper can trasnfer the bill o flasing to the purchaser goods)
	- receipt of the goods
		- "shipeers load stow and "
		- once the bill of lading has been signed, it acts as a recipt and records the condition of the goods
		- burden passes to the ship when the goods are loaded onto the ship
		- "shipped in apparent good order and condition unless otherwise stated" - issued and signed on behalf of the carrier
		- Article iii(3) Hague-Visby - shipper can demand information as to quantity, order, condition and leading marks of the goods on the bill of lading
		- Article iii(4) Hague-Visby - the above statments should be *prima facie* evidence of receipt by carrier but conclusive once the bill is transferred to a thord aprty in good faith
		- [[Grant v Norway]] - shipper can avoid liability if can prove goods were not shipped
			- master of ship signed bill of lading, statting that goods were loaded when they had not been
			- owners of bill of lading struggled to find remedy as master had no authority to sign for goods which were not loaded
		- Article iii(4) Hague-Visby solved the above, s4 COGSA 1994 extended this to a wider range of bills
		- bill of lading can be issued as either clean or claused if damaged
			- [[Compania Naviera Vascongada v Churchill]] - cargo of timber became stained by petrol when waiting for shipment, master issued a clean bill of lading - estopped from disclaiming the truth when claim was brought by 3rd party bill holders
			- [[Silver v Ocean Steamship Co]] - master can only be held liable for statements which he could verify be reasonable inspection
			- if the bill of lading discloses defect in goods, can issue a clean bill
			- Article iii(5) Hague-Visby - indemnity permitted in relation to statements as to quantity or leading marks BUT not as to the condition of the goods
				- this means that a shipper may offer to indemnify a clean bill 
				- but if indemnity as to condition of goods is unenforceable as this would promote fraud/tort of deceit - [[Brown, Jenkinson & Co. Ltd v Percy Dalton]] 
		- acts as *prima facie* evidence agaisnt the shipper
			- carrier can adduce evidnce that quantity and weight not as refelcted in bill of lading
	- evidence of the contract of carriage
		- terms of carriage usually concluded before issuance of bill of lading
		- whilst bill is in hands of shipper, this is evidence of contract of carriage
		- terms usually incorporated orally or through prior course of dealings - evidenced in the bill of lading
		- to a third party, the existence of the bill proves contract 
			- but not evidence of conclusive contractual terms 
		- [[Leduc & Co v Ward]] - any oral agreements between the shipper and carrier will not pass to a third party as they know only what appears on the docuemnt
		- clause paramount
			- which rules pl HV, rotterdam, etc are incoprated into the contract
	- document of title
		- amounts to constructive possession and thus be a pre-requisite for the passing of the title
		- bills of lading are transferred during the transportation of goods to transfer or pledge to goods to which they relate [[Lickbarrow v Mason]]
		- principal consequence of this is that cargo can be pledged to a bank whilst at sea.
		- the transferee of the bill of lading is entitled to possessory remedies. t
		- the transferee of the bill of lading will not acquire a better title to the goods than was held by the previous owner. (that is to say the previous owner as a better right to the goods than those below)
		- transfer will discharge obligations (liability for goods)
		- masters obligation is to give the goods to the person who has the bill of lading in their possession - therefore transfer of the bill of lading effectively transfer ownership of the goods (can be sold multiple times whilst still in delivery)
		- to constitute a document of title, the bill of lading must be drafted to order and must name a conssignee
		- one which contains a a name of a consignee, but no reference to order, becomes a straight bill
			- this type of document is not transferrable
			- A straight bill of lading is a ‘bill of lading or any similar document of title’ for the purposes of the Hague–Visby (or Hague) Rules. However, a straight bill of lading is a non-negotiable sea waybill for the purposes of the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992. - [[The Rafaela S]]
			- not a document of title entitling owner to constructive possession but still required to obtain possession
		- 



### hague - visby rules
- international convention applicable to contracts for the carriage of goods by sea
- govern the rights and the liabilities of carriers and shippers
- rules contain
	- carriers obligations
	- carriers exceptions from liability
	- shippers responsibilities
	- extent of carriers liability to shipper
	- the amounts recoverable from the carrier in case of loss of or dfamage to the goods whilst in the carrirs care
- balancing rights and liabilities between shippers and carriers in order for maximum business efficacy
- adopted by the majority of trading countries
- incoprporated into english law via the carriage of goods by sea act 1971
- article 10 hague visby rules - when do the rules apply?
	- proper name - hague rules as amended by the brussesls protocol 1968
	- apply to every bill of lading or similar document of title realting to carriage of goods beytween different states if:
		- if bol is issued in contracting state or
		- carriage is from a port of contracing sate or
		- in every other case, if incorporated in bol
	- extension of scope in uk by carriage of goods by sea act 1971
		- where port of shipment is in the uk, the internationality requiremnt is fulfilled
		- sea waybills are covered by the incorporation of a clause stating that the hague visby rules shall apply
		- the rules are extended to deck cargo which would otherwise be excluded
- obligations of the carrier
	- to ensure the vessel's seaworthiness - article 3 rule 1
		- excerise due diligence before and after to
			- make ther ship seaworthy
			- properly man, equip and supply the ship
			- make the parts of the ship in which goods are to carried, fit and safe for their reception, carriage and preservation
		- vessel needs to be seaworthy only at the beginign of the voyage
		- seaworthiness includes cargo worthiness
		- no breach for latent defects
		- can relate to training and competence of the crew
		- claimant to prtove there is a connection between loss or damage to goods and the vessels capacity ot carry goods
		- caliamnt will therefore have to prove the bessel was unseaworthy
		- teh carrier will then prove that the unseaworthiness was not due to lack of due dillignece
		- [[Actis Co Ltd v Sanko Steamship Co Ltd (The Aquacharm)]]
	- to care for the cargo - article 3 rule 2
		- this obligation (duty of care) extends throight the voyage
		- The carrier shall properly and carefully:
			- Load
			- Handle
			- Stow
			- Carry
			- Keep care for
			- And discharge the goods carried.
			- Shipper must provide special instructions where special care is required.
		- If goods are in apparent good order and condition on shipment (under a ‘clean’ bill of lading), non delivery or damaged delivery is prima facie evidence of the condition of the goods when the shipper sues the carrier and conclusive evidence of the condition of the goods when the consignee sues the carrier.
		- Carrier liable for loss due to unreasonable delay unless:
			- deviation authorised by shipper
			- circumstances beyond reasonable control
			- Reasonable necessary for compliance with an express or implied warranty
			- Reasonable necessity to save ship or its cargo
			- Saving human life or ship in distress
			- Medical or surgical aid for a person
			- Barratrous conduct of master or crew
			- Industrial action unconnected with carriers unreasonable conduct
		- A liberty clause usually allows for deviation from the direct geographical route.
	- to proceed with reasonable dispatch
	- To carry the goods without unjustifiable delay
	- To carry the goods without deviation
	- To issue a bill of lading where the shipper requests one.
- excepted perils - article 4 
	- •Carrier will not be responsible for loss or damage arising from:
		- An act, neglect or fault of the master, mariner, pilot or the servants of the carrier in the navigation and management of the ship.
			- very Controversial cf Hamburg Rules
			- ‘navigation and management’ relates to the ship and NOT the cargo
			- The Xantho (1887) 12 App. Cas. 503.
		- Fire unless caused by actual fault of carrier.
			- What about a fire caused by a pre-existing unseaworthiness?
			- Maxine Footwear Co. v Canadian Government Merchant Marine [1959] AC 589.
		- Perils, dangers and accidents of sea.
			- What about a fire caused by a pre-existing unseaworthiness?
		- Acts of God, war, public enemies.
		- Arrest or restrain of princes, rulers.
		- Quarantine regulations
		- Act or omission of shipper or his agents.
		- Strikes lockouts etc.
		- Riots and civil commotions.
		- Saving or attempting to save life or property at sea.
		- Wastage of cargo due to its inherent qualities, insufficient packing marks etc.
		- Latent defects not discoverable by due diligence.
		- Any other cause arising without the actual fault of carrier.
	- 

	- Hague-Visby rules do not apply to deck cargo and live animals.
	- But the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1971 reverses this by stating that the rules will apply as if they do not exclude deck cargo and live animals.
	- application of the carriers duties:
		- The Hellenic Dolphin [1978] 2 Lloyd’s Rep 336 (Lloyd J).
			- Shipper (or receiver) bears the onus of proving that goods shipped in apparent good order and condition (under a ‘clean’ bill of lading) arrived damaged - Breach of Article 3 Rule 2 (the carrier shall properly and carefully load, handle, stow, carry, keep care for and discharge the goods carried).
			- Carrier will then prove immunity under Article 4 (Excepted perils).
			- Shipper will rebut immunity OR argue for a breach of Article 3 Rule 1 (unseaworthiness before and at the beginning of a voyage).
			- Carrier can then rebut by proving that the unseaworthiness was not due to a lack of due diligence.
- obligations of the shipper
	- To pay freight (primary liability)
		- Shipper (seller) usually pays the freight where the CFR (Cost and Freight) Incoterm is used.
		- Liability for freight transferred to lawful holder of bill of lading or consignee (buyer) where the FOB (Free on Board) Incoterm is used.
		- Original shipper, however, may still be liable and only relieved when holder/consignee pays.
		- Usually sea carriage document will give carrier a lien over cargo for payment of freight.
	- Goods of an inflammable, explosive or dangerous nature if not properly marked or are shipped without the knowledge and consent of carrier, may be landed, destroyed, jettisoned or rendered innocuous at any time before discharge.
		- [[The Giannis NK [1998] AC 605.]]
	- If carried with consent of carrier, but become dangerous at a later stage can also be dealt with likewise.



### limitation of liability and COGSA 1992
- recap
	- When do the Hague-Visby Rules Apply? Article 10
	- The Carrier’s obligations:
	- Article 3 Rule 1 – Seaworthiness before and at the beginning of the voyage – Due diligence
	- Article 3 Rule 2 – The obligation to properly and carefully load, stow, handle, carry goods – applies throughout the voyage
	- Article 4 – Excepted Perils - An act, neglect or fault of the carrier in the navigation and management of the ship – very controversial
	- Practical application of the carrier’s obligations under the Hague-Visby Rules and how the burden of proof shifts [as per The Hellenic Dolphin [1978] 2 Lloyd's Rep. 336 (Lloyd J)]
		- Prima facie breach of Article 3 Rule 2 where goods were shipped in apparent good order and condition (Clean bill of lading) but arrived damaged or were lost at sea.
		- Shipper pleads and proves that the breach of Article 3 Rule 2 caused the damage to the goods.
		- Carrier pleads and proves that he is covered by one of the Excepted Perils under Article 4.
		- Shipper rebuts the applicability of the Excepted Peril and pleads and proves breach of Article 3 Rule 1.
		- Carrier pleads and proves that the unseaworthiness of the vessel was not due to a lack of due diligence.
- with regard to limitation of liability
	- if commercial risk cannot be limited and profit cannot be made, there is no incentive for the carriage of goods
		- there is therefore a need of a risk allocation device in order to keep balance and maintain commercial viability
	- Salvage and wreck removal are not covered
	- All other claims are subject to limitation
	- Even if you managed to show that there is a breach of Art.3, the carrier can limit their liability.
	- A fundamental principle of maritime law is the ability of a carrier to limit its liability.
		- limitation of carriers liability
			- Article 4 rule 5
			- “Unless the nature and value of such goods have been declared by the shipper before shipment and inserted in the bill of lading, (sea carriage document), neither the carrier nor the ship shall in any event be or become liable for any loss or damage to or in connection with the goods in an amount exceeding 666.67 units of account per package or unit or 2 units of account per kilogram of gross weight of the goods lost or damaged, whichever is the higher.”
			- If your claims are more valuable than this, you should get insurance.
			- Anything that is more than 333.34 kg, you’ll get more money, this assumes the container is the unit, it doesn’t have to be, it depends on the bill of lading.
			- containers
				- For containers –may be either the number of packages or units noted on bill of lading or container itself.
				- You can say that in your container there are 10 units of whiskey in it, i.e. ten things per limitation of liability, if you fails to mention what is in the container, then the limit of liability is the one container, master will want to be each container to be 1 unit because of the limitation of liability
				- Latter may limit liability and not strictly interpreted
				- Carriers will thus often attempt to limit bill of lading to simply recording the container as a unit (article 3 rule 8 renders void attempt to remove shipper’s choice).
				- [[El Greco (Australia) Pty Ltd v Mediterranean Shipping Co SA [2004] FCAFC 202.]]
				- Bill of lading –“1 x 20ft FCL(full container load)/FCL general purpose container said to contain 200945 pieces poster and prints”
				- A claim for breach of Art.3.2
				- Under packages number ‘1’ listed and at bottom under ‘total number of packages’
				- Court found that for limitation purposes there was 1 unit – the container
			- Narrow exception – when damage resulted from act or omission done with intent to cause damage or recklessly and with knowledge that damage will result.
			- The only time when you can claim full liability from the carrier
			- Carrier normally required to advise shipper of limits and can contract for higher limits etc
			- limitation period - 1 year (how much time does the shipper or carrier have to take action/start proceedings) - (this is short)
				- from "delivery or from date whent he goods should have been delivered" - to be interpreted from the bill of ladijng
			- 3rd party issues with regard to limitation of liability - privity of contract
				- stevedore
					- Tackle-to-tackle –H and HV rules apply where ships equipment used
					- When stevedoring equipment used, period ends when passes the ‘ship’s rail’
					- Himalaya clauses used to extend the exclusions and limitation of H or HV rules (which apply to servants and agents of the carrier) to independent contractors such as stevedores. You extend the protection given to the carriers and those of their employers.
					- Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 does give a third party the benefit of a limitation of liability clause in a contract - The utility of the Himalaya clause can now be questioned.
					- Pre-conditions for Himalaya clause to apply: [as per Lord Reid in Scruttons v Midland Silicones [1962] House of Lords] Himalaya clause successfully applied for the first time in The Eurymedon [1974] Privy Council and followed in The New York Star [1980] PC and The Starsin [2003] UKHL 12.
						- Terms of the clause make it clear that third party (stevedore) intended to be protected by HV rules
						- Carrier is contracting as agent for the third party
						- Third party has authorised that
						- Third party provides consideration for the benefit
				- other issues (recoever or cosignee)
					- bill of lading is not prrof of exisitence of a contract here as is between shipper and carrier. so how can the the recoever take action agaisnt shipper? 
						- IMPORTER/RECEIVER HAS SALE OF GOODS CONTRACT WITH SHIPPER
						- BOL/CARRIAGE CONTRACT EXISTS BETWEEN CARRIER AND SHIPPER
						- BUT THERE IS NO PRIVITY OF CONTRACT BETWEEN IMPORTER/RECIEVER AND THE CARRIER
							- so there is a probelm of privity wit regard to contract of carriage
					- The parties to the contract of sale of goods are the shipper and the importer, and the shipper and carrier are parties to the contract of carriage, but the importer and carrier have no privity of contract although they have the bill of lading to exchange for the goods.
					- Section 1 of the Bills of Lading Act 1855. The law may impose an implied contract between those parties - [[Brandt v Liverpool]] contract (legal fiction) - collection of goods and consideration of freight/charges
					- The Carriage of Good by Sea Act 1992 has repealed the Bills of Lading Act 1855 and provides an altogether more liberal regime for the statutory assignment of the shipper’s rights under the contract of carriage.
						- s.2: A person who becomes the lawful holder of a bill of lading (or sea waybill) shall have transferred to and vested in him all rights of suit under the contract of carriage as if he had been a party to the contract.
						- s.3: Where such a person (s.2) takes or demands delivery of the goods (or makes a cargo claim), that person becomes subject to the same liabilities under that contract as if he had been a party to that contract.
						- s.4: A bill of lading which represents goods to have been shipped, and which is signed by the ship’s master or his agent is conclusive evidence of receipt for shipment.
				








(focus on cogsa)
Charles is the purchaser (from Adam) of a fire engine, of which he takes delivery when it
arrives. On inspection, he discovers that it has been damaged, because of a breach of the
carriage contract by the ship owner. Advise him in the following circumstances.

a. A straight bill of lading was issued to Adam (who was responsible for putting the
fire engine physically on board the vessel), naming Charles as consignee. Charles
paid for the fire engine before shipment, and Adam has not sent the bill of lading
to Charles. Delivery was made to Charles, without its presentation.
- per rafaela s non negotiable, non transferable seaway bill for the purpose of COGSA 1992
- but per rafaela s, it still needs to be presented for delivery of goods and so counts as the a document of the bill of lading
- has all the rights of suit under the contract of carriage under s2(1)(b) COGSA 1992
- s2(5)
- s2 only relates to contractual right of suit - does not deal with assignment of tortious right of suit
- as charles payed before the shipment, the proprietary rights over the engine where his and can therefore sue in tort for negligence/conversion

b. The same as (a), but the bill of lading was made out to “consignee or order”.
- negotiable, transferrable and required for delivery of goods
- 2(1)(a) - didn't receive BoL and so is not the lawful owner and therefore the rights of suit have not been transferred 
- still has right of suit under tort as the above only realtes to contractual carriage suit


c. The same as (b), but freight has not been prepaid, and, in order to obtain delivery,
Charles promised the ship owner to present the bill of lading and pay the freight
when the bill of lading arrives. As yet the bill of lading has not arrived, and Charles
has not paid any freight.
- Brandt v Liverpool - implied contract under common law - consideration is promises to pay and to release goods
- s3 would not apply as no bill of lading per s2